A series of coordinated suicide bombings in Sri Lankan churches and luxury hotels, carried out by an Islamic organization on Easter Sunday, killing over 250 people was an appalling act of terrorism. Almost all would agree on that. Was the killing of Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi also an act of terrorism? It was, if it was a deliberate act, motivated by religious or political objectives, as alleged by Turkish officials and others[i]. Moreover, if the slaying was intentionally orchestrated by the Saudi government, it was an act of state terrorism. That?s basic. Or is it? Today, after years of modern terrorism and counterterrorism, the international community still does not agree on a single definition of terrorism. Despite the daily threats posed to many states, the definition conundrum prevents an agreed classification that could better facilitate the fight against terrorism and thwart the public legitimacy that most terrorist organizations seek. When a problem is accurately and acceptably defined, it should be easier to solve. Terrorism is an overly used term often heard in different discourses and contexts. It is used by the general public and in the course of academic, political, and legal debates, not to mention constantly referenced in the media. It may not be feasible to verse one universal definition for all discourses, but the term?s key criteria can and should be agreed upon. Terrorism has derogatory connotations with which few want to be associated. The more ambiguous the concept, however, the more it lends itself to opportunistic referrals and affords vehement condemnation across the geopolitical spectrum. Ironically, condemnation of terrorism can be heard from Washington to Teheran, without agreement on the meaning of the term or who should be held accountable for its chaos and carnage. Iranian leaders can send condolences to grieving Jewish families in Pittsburgh[ii] shortly after inciting to wipe the Jewish state off the map.[iii] Terrorism is ?intolerable? when it hits us but too often deemed justified or at least ?understandable? when it hits others. What can most states agree on, nevertheless? What is the world?s common red line? Definitions, Conceptualization and Perspectives Alex Schmid, a forefather of terrorism studies, dissected the issue and presented 109 distinct definitions of terrorism and 22 different elements ascribed to terrorism in common use.[iv] A decade later, Walter Laqueur carried out a similar study, observing that it is generally agreed that terrorism involves violence or the threat of violence.[v] Two decades later, in the context of a wide-ranging Handbook on terrorism, Schmid and Easson compiled 260 different definitions, but were still unable to point to a universal consensus on one.[vi] Even within the United States there are different definitions given by different agencies.[vii] One reason for the lack of agreement on defining terrorism is because the contextual meaning of the term has changed so frequently over the past two hundred years[viii]. Terrorism has deviated from its original focus of state-sponsored violence designed to induce fear and terror in the enemies of the French revolution, to describe the exact opposite: political violence directed against the state[ix]. In the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, prior to World War I, terrorism was often used to refer to anarchists and left-wing social revolutionaries. After World War II and the decline of the European empires, terrorism became linked with violent methods against colonial governments used by various anti-colonialist groups seeking self-determination. Two issues have dominated the definition discussion in international law discussions: (i) whether states can commit acts of terrorism, and (ii) whether one can distinguish a terrorist from a freedom fighter struggling against an oppressive regime. [x] States, Civilians and Non-Combatants Source: David L. Ryan, Boston Globe The scene at the finish line of the 117th Boston Marathon when one of two bombs exploded. One of the most significant elements in the evolution of contemporary asymmetric conflicts, especially when studying sub-national groups or clandestine agents, is that the distinctions that may have once existed between terrorism, guerrilla warfare, and insurgency are now all but nonexistent in much of public discourse.[xi] In the past, terrorist organizations were usually of small size with limited strength; guerrillas were depicted as being able to control territory and exercise limited sovereignty over populations; while insurgency was often considered a more sophisticated and advanced form of warfare than was typically used by terrorists.[xii] Today, those distinctions, in common discourse, are all but obsolete. [xiii] It is my assertion that it is the choice of targets that can differentiate these forms of warfare. If the deliberate choice of targets in an attack are civilians, then it is a terrorist attack; and if an organization endorses attacks against civilians as part of its written or unwritten charter, then it is a terrorist organization. Anything else should be considered something else. Terrorist organizations can have paramilitary or even advanced military capabilities and apply guerrilla tactics or carry out sophisticated insurgent operations against military and civilian targets. Not every attack carried out by a terrorist organization is an act of terrorism. Notwithstanding, if an organization deliberately targets civilians, then it should be considered a terrorist organization. Al Qaeda and Hezbollah are two examples of such organizations. A lone attacker, not affiliated with a recognized organization, can be an anti-Semite, white supremacist, or Islamophobe who targets civilians to further his disturbing ideology, and is therefore a terrorist. Case in point: The man who, who recently slaughtered 11 Jewish worshipers ? civilians ? in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania but did not belong to any organization.[xiv] The March 2019 massacre at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand is another example. Bruce Hoffman, America?s leading scholar of terrorism studies, defines terrorism in his classic textbook, as ?the deliberate creation and exploitation of fear through violence or the threat of violence in the pursuit of political change?[xv] This definition offers a basis for studying the various idiosyncrasies of organizations and individuals who resort to violence in an effort to achieve their political goals. By focusing on political change, however, it excludes attacks that are not ?revolutionary? in nature, and the exploitation of fear to preserve an existing political status quo and repress change. The U.S. Department of Defense provides a similar definition, which includes religious or ideological change[xvi], but relies on subjective assessment. More importantly, from a counterterrorism perspective, these definitions do not isolate the phenomenon that civilized states should confront. Namely, the deliberate targeting of civilians ? by individuals, organizations or states. States exercise terror. When Iran trains, finances and equips organizations like Hezbollah to target civilians, they are sponsoring terrorism. When Iranians themselves carry out attacks on civilians, like the 1994 attacks on AMIA in Argentina, and the atrocities orchestrated in Syria in recent years, they are directly and indirectly carrying out acts of terrorism and can be categorized as a terrorist state. Was the slaying of Washington Post columnist, Jamal Khashoggi, a Saudi act of state terrorism? It should be considered as such, if the decision to kill was made deliberately by the Saudi government. Strong relations, including arms deals with the West and a common cause to confront a repugnant regime in Iran, do not change that premise. Is the Palestinian Authority, by providing financial rewards to suicide bombers? families, sponsoring terrorism? It should be considered as such. State terrorism, aimed against civilians, considered internal or external foes, has in fact claimed far more victims than terrorism perpetrated by non-state actors.[xvii] The lethality of actions carried out by well-trained non-state groups such as al-Qaeda, the Tamil Tigers, and Hamas are modest compared with the consequences in Stalin?s Russia, Mao?s China, Pol Pot?s Cambodia, Saddam Hussein?s Iraq and in Iran since 1979. Even if external state-inflicted ?war crimes? can be addressed by international law, excluding state terrorism from the scope of terrorism gets rogue states off the hook.[xviii] Further obfuscating the meaning of ?terrorism? is the sometimes ambiguous idea of who constitutes a ?non-combatant?.[xix] Would the deadly suicide attack on the USS Cole on October 12, 2000 be considered an act of terrorism? This attack, carried out by al-Qaeda operatives in Yemen?s Port of Aden, killed 17 American sailors and injured 39 more.[xx] While the attack on the USS Cole proved al-Qaeda?s operational credibility, provided the group with media exposure, and served as a recruitment enhancer, can the attack be considered an example of what U.S. law describes as ?premeditated, politically-motivated violence perpetrated against non-combatants??[xxi] Not if one considers U.S. sailors aboard an American destroyer in Yemen to be combatants. Another example further illustrates the sort of confusion that often surrounds the use of ?non-combatants?: On July 12, 2006, Hezbollah, an internationally recognized terrorist organization, attacked a number of targets on Israel?s northern border with Lebanon, killing three Israeli soldiers, abducting two, and wounding another two.[xxii] Was Hezbollah?s attack, an act of terrorism? If one considers the attacked soldiers to be combatants, the answer is no. It was a military attack, like the one on the USS Cole, carried out by a terrorist organization that targets combatants when it is presumed to be effective. In yet another definitional variation, Edward Peck, former U.S. Chief of Mission in Iraq who was once asked by the Reagan White House Task Force on Terrorism to draft a definition of terrorism, expressed the following opinion: ?? the U.S. Code Title 18, Section 2331, reads, ?International Terrorism,? means ?activities that,? I quote, ?appear to be intended to affect the conduct of a government by mass destruction, assassination, or kidnapping. ?? Yes, well, certainly, you can think of a number of countries that have been involved in such activities. Ours is one of them. Israel is another. And so, the Terrorist, of course, is in the eye of the beholder.? [xxiii] (Bold added) Mr. Peck?s proposition legitimizes terrorism by casting it as subjective and suggests that a terrorist act is ?in the eye of the beholder.? The statement that ?one man?s terrorist is another man?s freedom fighter? has become one of the most difficult impediments in coping with terrorism, particularly as a global effort.[xxiv] Attackers of civilians, whether on buses, aircrafts or in skyscrapers, along with the organizations they represent, must be viewed as terrorists and treated accordingly by the entire international community.[xxv] In other words, those who target civilians, regardless of their cause, cannot be considered ?freedom fighters? and should be considered terrorists. A Legal Perspective Immediately after the 9/11 attacks, the UN Security Council unanimously passed a resolution to cooperate in the fight against terror[xxvi], leading numerous UN member states to pass legislation within their jurisdictions that defined terrorism and aimed to facilitate the confrontation with it. An international law definition, however, has yet to be reached. There have been numerous academic and legal attempts to define terrorism over the years since 9/11. However, they all suffer from shortcomings such as the use of subjective adjectives, being too long, being insufficiently inclusive, or too inclusive. These shortcomings have likely hampered the ability to reach a consensus. [xxvii] A Counter-Terrorism-Driven Definition of Terrorism In what may seem as a challenge to common terrorism studies thought, Boaz Ganor, Israel?s leading scholar of terrorism studies, proposed a short and concise definition that highlights counter-terrorism practice and prioritizes the safeguarding of civilians:?Terrorism is the deliberate use of violence aimed against civilian targets by non-state actors in order to achieve political ends.?[xxviii] Granted, the above definition does not encompass all the attributes that terrorism research warrants, but it does designate the core threat of terrorism and challenge of counter terrorism. Namely, the targeting and safeguarding of civilian society. Thus, Ganor?s definition can be built upon to facilitate a consensus on the key criteria of terrorism. Namely, it is proposed that terrorism be defined as a ?deliberate attack or threat of attack against civilians and/or civilian targets, to further or to defend political or religious objectives.[xxix] The definition features three key components: Account of Action. First, the definition states that terrorism involves ?a deliberate attack or threat of attack.? Note the use of ?attack? rather than ?violence,? which is the word more commonly employed in such definitions. The rationale behind preferring ?attack? to ?violence? is that the latter may exclude cyber-warfare. Such actions can cause mass disturbance and even destruction, but they do not necessarily involve violence. Cyber-attacks, which have become a widespread and growing threat, can cause physical harm to populations due to power outages, pollution, infrastructure shutdowns, and more. Type of Target. Next, the definition declares that terrorism involves action against ?civilians and/or civilian targets.? While ?non-combatant? has a much broader scope, it leaves too much room for interpretation, and manipulation. The use of the word ?civilian? allows the definition to obtain a wide international consensus. Motivation. Third, the suggested definition states that terrorism involves ?an attempt to further political or religious objectives.? While some might feel that the motivation behind an attack is irrelevant, this component serves to differentiate terrorist actions from common criminal acts. Furthermore, limiting the definition to political objectives would not take into consideration attacks carried by fundamentalists who seek to impose their religious beliefs but are not necessarily interested in political power. Importantly, the proposed definition does not limit the term to attacks carried out by non-state actors. A number of state actors sponsor and directly practice terrorism. The international legal framework should address that. The principle of distinction, under which all involved in the armed conflict must distinguish between combatants and civilians, and the laws governing crimes against humanity are not sufficient; a state that has a policy of deliberately targeting civilians should be considered a terrorism state. Iran is such a state.[xxx] Furthermore, the killing of Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi if it was a deliberate act, orchestrated by the Saudi government, should in fact be considered an act of state terrorism. Consensus on Civilians as the Key Criterion The premeditated killing of civilians has been carried out daily for the past eight years in Syria and for over a decade in parts of Pakistan, Yemen, Libya, Nigeria, Kenya and Iraq. More than 10 terrorist attacks causing over 100 civilian casualties in each attack occurred in these locations in 2015 alone.[xxxi] On Easter Sunday, it hit Sri Lanka. Civilians are not legitimate targets, regardless who the attacker is. Studies indicate that avoiding or minimizing civilian casualties, increases counter-terrorism effectiveness.[xxxii] Similarly, militants might reach their political goals more often if they refrained from targeting civilians by terrorism. Therefore , the key criterion of protecting the lives of civilians, should be universally agreed upon. To a large extent, terrorism, over the years, has been an issue of perception in terms of proponents and antagonists to the sides participating or victimized by the violence.[xxxiii] If civilians were perceived, by attackers and attacked alike, as illegitimate targets, the targeting of civilians may decrease.[xxxiv] Civilians of all faiths have been victims of terrorism in recent years. This should stop. The time has come to level the field and judge all actors, states, organizations or individuals, by the same laws and standards. In the words of Winston Churchill, we should strive for a world where the strong respect the rights of the weak. [xxxv] By applying the same standards to all, the strong and weak may both benefit as more can be held accountable to their actions. The only silver lining that might arise from the Khashoggi debacle is that an international consensus be set, that when a state deliberately attacks a civilian, for example killing a journalist that expresses critical views against that state?s prince, that state would be considered to have committed a terrorist act. From a counter-terrorism perspective, it would be ineffective to prioritize the diagnostic details of attacks, idiosyncrasies of attackers or the various attributes of the terrorism, while shelving any judgement on targeting civilians. Instead, we must invest our thought and action in confronting this strategic threat: The need to label what is clearly immoral and unacceptable. Targeting civilians is just that.End. Terrorism is a global phenomenon which is easy to recognise but difficult to define. Scholars all over the world describe it according to their socio-economic and political conditions. Those affected by social and economic problems conceptualise terrorism as conflict in society between the haves and the have nots, whereas those experiencing use of terror tactics to gain political mileage consider it as a political phenomenon. Apparently the word 'terrorism' is interpreted to suit different interests. There are innumerable definitions of terrorism and every definition though it appears correct in its own perspective, lacks some important aspects of terrorism. In other words these definitions do not represent all the components of terrorism. However, if these definitions are analysed in totality, an acceptable definition could be evolved. Multiple interpretations not merely complicate definition of terrorism, but also encourages its perpetrator to escape in the name of economic deprivation and freedom fighting. As a matter of fact, terrorism continues to pervade the political system because there is no acceptable definition; and hence no punitive action against the perpetrator is possible either by the government or by the international organisations.  Scholars all over the world are entangled in the labyrinth of terminology and have expressed different views. Amongst them all, the most widely acceptable definition is the one offered by Yonah Alexander. He defines terrorism as: 'the use of violence against random civilian targets in order to intimidate or to create generalised pervasive fear for the purpose of achieving political goals.' 1 This definition is precise and is often quoted by scholars, but it lacks an important aspect of terrorism i.e. international linkage . Terrorists cannot inflict terror without the funds and infrastructure facilities that they receive from international connections. Somewhat similar is the elaborate definition given by Alex P. Schmid who analysed innumerable definitions before arriving at the following conclusion: 'Terrorism is an anxiety-inspiring method of repeated violent action, employed by clandestine individual groups or state actors, for idiosyncratic, criminal or political reasons, whereby-in contrast to assassination-the direct targets of violence are not the main targets. The immediate human targets of violence are generally chosen randomly or selectively from a target population, and serve as message generators. Threat and violence based communication processes between terrorists' victims, and main targets are used to manipulate the main target, turning it into a targeting of terror, a target of demands, or a target of attention, depending on whether intimidation, coercion or propaganda is primarily sought.' 2 This definition goes into detail of the phenomenon of terrorism, but remains more focussed on targets and objectives than its basic nature. Similarly, Brian Jenkins writes that the threat of violence, individual acts of violence or a campaign of violence designed primarily to instill fear is terrorism. 3 This definition of terrorism is close to the concept of terrorism, but ignores two significant aspects e.g. training and international support. These two aspects are highlighted in the definition of Christopher Dobson and Martha Crenshaw. The necessity of training is expressed by Dobson who writes that 'use of explosive devices used by the terrorists needs appropriate training', 4 the need for international assistance is expressed in the definition of Martha Crenshaw. She opines that terrorism is a means to accomplish certain political objectives with international support. 5There is yet another group of scholars who define terrorism in historical perspective, for instance Michael Walzer believes that "random terror for political achievement emerged as strategy of revolutionary struggle after the World War II." 6Likewise some scholars define terrorism in the light of violence and coercion by state agencies.Walter Laquer, for instance, defines acts of violence and repression as carried out by the government against their own people as terrorism. 7 In the same vein, Neil Livingston says that the state is the main perpetrator of terrorism today. 8 Corroborating the same idea, scholars like Jay Mallin defines terrorism as a substitute for overt warfare . To put it in his own words' when diplomats fail soldiers take over, when soldiers fail terrorists take over.' 9 His opinion of terrorism as a substitute for war or as a consequence of failed diplomacy is relevant. But to state that terrorism is a fall-out of military failure is far from the reality. Often we experience inability of police, not the soldiers, in countering terrorism .As a matter of fact when diplomats, political leaders and police fail soldiers take over to curb terrorism . UN Definition of Terrorism The UN General Assembly Report of the Ad Hoc Committee on International Terrorism (28th session/A/9028,1973) was an important document in the history of terrorism. Recalling the 1972 resolution entitled 'Measures to prevent international terrorism which endangers or takes innocent human lives or jeopardises fundamental freedoms, and study of the underlying causes of those forms of terrorism and acts of violence which lie in misery, frustration, grievance and despair, and which cause some people to sacrifice human lives, including their own, in an attempt to effect radical changes` the Ad Hoc Committee established three sub-committees to examine definition, causes and prevention of terrorism. Seven draft proposals were submitted by different nations to the sub-committee on the definition of terrorism. While the Non-Aligned Group (consisting of Algeria, Congo, Democratic Yemen, Guinea, India, Syria, Tunisia, Tanzania, Yemen,Yugoslavia, Zaire, and Zambia) submitted collective proposals, France, Greece, Haiti, Iran, Nigeria, Venezuela made separate presentations on the definition of terrorism. The Non-Aligned Group defined terrorism as acts of violence committed by a group of individuals which endanger human lives and jeopardise fundamental freedoms the effects of which are not confined to one state. This should not, however, affect the inalienable right to self-determination under colonial and racist regimes. The French proposal described international terrorism as a heinous act of barbarism committed in foreign territory. Greece distinguished terrorism from freedom fighting and defined it as criminal acts of violence....with the aim to put pressure on any dispute or for personal satisfaction. Haiti included political aspirations in the definition and Iran added violence against freedom movement also as acts of international terrorism. Nigeria and Venezuela too held similar views. Apparently the house was divided. Therefore no resolution on the definition of terrorism could be adopted. The matter remained suspended until 1987 when the Secretary General convened an international conference to define terrorism and differentiate it from freedom fighting. This conference was successful in the sense that members agreed to identify terrorism with crime and accordingly a future plan of action was proposed. Taking note of the Secretary Generals` report of the conference the UN General Assembly condemned all acts of terrorism except those fighting for the right to self-determination against foreign and racist regimes as `criminal` (Resolution adopted on the reports of the Sixth Committee,General Assembly, 94th Meeting, Dated December 7, 1987, Report: A/42/832) An overwhelmimg majority adopted this resolution. However, remarkably the US and Israel voted against the resolution while Honduras abstained. Thus after fifteen years of deliberations and counter-deliberations, finally the UN came to the conclusion that all acts of terrorism are criminal.  However, the question arises: is it a correct definition of terrorism? Can we describe a terrorist as a criminal? The answer to these questions lies in self-contradiction. If terrorism is analysed as a concept, this definition is not correct. The link between crime and terrorism could be established, but to identify the two as one would be misleading. Criminals do not have political purpose unless they are converted to terrorism. Normally their aim is to acquire wealth . They are more concerned about the economy of the state and the individuals rather than the political situation; whereas politics is the main consideration of terrorists. However, if it has to be analysed from the point of view of prevention, then this definition can serve the purpose. Perhaps it is the simplest way to cope with terrorism. This could be one of the effective measures to prevent international terrorism without getting into the details of causes and their political affiliation. 'Identify them with their acts of violence and treat them as criminal' sounds quite good. But is it viable? If prevention is the objective for defining terrorism as criminal, then the UN should have immediately adopted a resolution on compulsory extradition treaty among nations for exchange of criminals (terrorist) operating from different parts of the world. The UN has not taken any measure in this direction though this issue has been raised time and again. Until extradition is made compulsory and criminals are tried according to the law of the nation they belong to, this definition is unlikely to prevent international terrorism. Hence even this definition has no relevance. Obviously there is a long list of definitions given by different scholars at different points of time in different situations.Undoubtedly all these definitions lead towards conceptualisation of terrorism and have certain common features. However, none of these definitions presents terrorism in its totality. Each scholar has offered his own perspective on terrorism. None of them adopted the terrorists' perspective and put them together to evolve a functional definition of terrorism. The present study is an attempt to do the same on the basis of David Easton's system theory. Easton's system theory is adopted not merely because the phenomenon of terrorism has a direct effect on the socio-economic and political system but also because it (terrorism) emanates from within the same system. (In order to arrive at a functional definition of terrorism a pragmatic approach to the problem would be more relevant.) A definition devoid of the socio-economic and political issues involved in terrorism holds good only for academic purpose not for practical implications. In order to arrive at a functional definition of terrorism a pragmatic approach to the problem would be more relevant. Therefore in this context, terrorism is broadly defined from two perspectives: Political Perspective (P) : Group Action (GA), International Linkage (IL) Means Perspective (M) : Violence (V), Training (T) In this model, the definition of terrorism is analysed from the above mentioned two perspectives i.e. terrorism as a political phenomenon described as P, and as a means described as M to achieve political goals.In the subsequent phase, the model explains that P demands coordination and cooperation to form a cohesive political group and thereby needs GA to implement the plan and GA in turn leads to IL. From the political perspective point of view , terrorism is defined as a political rather than a criminal or psychological phenomenon in the light of the fact that terrorists do not believe in personal gain or accumulation of wealth. Their sole objective is to acquire political power be it in the form of autonomy or creation of an independent state. In the Means perspective, terrorism is defined as a means in pursuit of realisation of a political mission. While explaining the means, the model emphasises the necessity of violence in terrorism.Violence employed by terrorists is of specific type i.e. tactical by nature. Violence conveying a message to government is terrorism. Killing and arson devoid of publicity do not fit into the definition of terrorism. Furthermore, the tools of violence terrorists use demands professional training. A layman cannot operate sophisticated weapons and missiles used by terrorists. This aspect also needs attention while defining terrorism. The following paragraphs present a detailed analysis of both the perspectives on definition of terrorism. Violence and intimidation could be effective means to achieve multiple objectives.It could be used for personal benefits, redress of social and economic grievances or to gain political mileage. However, not all acts of violence are terrorism. Only those incidents of violence could be defined as terrorism which have political implications. Individual acts of violence are more of a psychological nature than political. Socio-economic or psychological aspects are causal factors for the growth of terrorism, and not the basic nature of the phenomenon. Both the nature and purpose of terrorism is political. Its political identity could be understood better by analysing various dimensions of the problem such as objective, methodology and the organisational structure. The ultimate goal of terrorists is to acquire political power. Social and economic problems are not primary to them, though these issues are vital for the rise of terrorism. These are not priorities because they believe that once the political power comes under their domain, social and economic reforms would follow by themselves. Thus, their sole aim is to capture power. 10 Their desperation inspires them to target political leaders and institutions to malign the credibility of a government. Another important political dimension to terrorism is its organisational structure. Terrorist groups are organised more as a political party than a criminal gang. Initially they emerge as a political unit aspiring for political recognition. However when they fail to make a dent in active politics through political means, their agenda shifts from politics to tactical violence . All India Sikh Students Federation (AISF) in Punjab and All Party Hurriyat Conference (APHC) in Jammu and Kashmir could be cited as examples of the same situation. The AISF came into existence as an organised group of Sikh students in Punjab. But with the passage of time, it emerged as one of the active terrorist groups in Punjab. Similar is the case of APHC in Kashmir. It came into being as a political party to contest against the National Conference in J and K . But failed to participate in the political process partly because it is funded by Pakistan and partly because leaders involved in APHC are not sure as to which path to follow-violence or politics of negotiation. They are a bit confused because Pakistan will not like a peaceful solution to the Kashmir problem and India will not accept any organisation playing the Pakistani tune in the internal politics of the country. A number of them including the main leaders are arrested for fomenting trouble in J and K. Though the APHC is not a banned organisation, its activities are under observation. Be it AISF or APHC, when these groups fail to gain recognition from the government and the people, they adopt a violent course of action to destabilise an established government 11 more so in a democratic society. In the name of civil rights guaranteed to citizens in democracy, terrorists indulge in violence and create mass unrest and fear.Wilkinson rightly defines such acts of violence as political terrorism. 12Subsequently, the definition model highlights GA as an essential element in terrorism.The kind of violence terrorists inflict cannot have an impact without collective manoeuvering. They operate in a network structure and are inter-dependent on one another to execute the plan of subversion. The need for collaboration in operations is so high in terrorist organisations that at times they hire services of other groups from across their national boundary. 13 For instance, Pak-sponsored terrorism in India involves different terrorist groups operating in Punjab, J and K, Assam in India as well as mercenaries from Afghanistan, Sudan and Saudi Arabia. The theory of individualism and isolation has no relevance in terrorism. 'Bigger the network, more the mileage' is the key to terrorist operations. Individual acts of terror without political purpose is not terrorism, but manifestation of crime or mental sickness. Such individuals could best be defined as psychopaths not as terrorists. Mohamed Ali Agca of Turkey, the man who shot at Pope John Paul II in Rome had no political motive. The investigating agency in Italy tried to establish his link with the Turkey based terrorist group, 'Grey Wolf,' 14 however, could not get any evidence of his political connection. Throughout the judicial trial, he denied having any connection with the 'Grey Wolf" or the right wing Nationalist Action Party (NAP) of Turkey. He claimed to be representing his own idea of terrorism. He was sentenced to death. The Pope himself had direct interaction with him after conviction and requested the court to reduce his punishment from death to life imprisonment. He realised that it was a case of mental sickness, rather than a deliberate act of terrorism. The political perspective on terrorism would remain incomplete without a focus on international linkage. Interaction among terrorist groups is an essential feature of terrorism. Terrorist operations demand heavy expenditure on weapons and training facilities, which are unlikely to come from sources within the national boundary. The risk of being exposed to police and intelligence agencies is very high if the operation remains confined to domestic frontiers. The possibility of being caught by the law enforcement agencies keeps them crossing the border off and on. Therefore, most of the terrorist groups not merely have foreign source of funding, but maintain cross border training camps and sanctuaries. The history of terrorism is replete with illustrations of transnational terrorism. The Red Faction Army (RAF) of (then) West Germany popularly known as Baader Meinhoff, and JKLF could pose as threats to civilised society because of their international linkage. Baader and Meinhof, the two important leaders of RAF had a rendezvous in Jordan to train Palestinian militants 15 and used them in their own pursuit to destabilise the government of West Germany. In the same way, the Kashmiri militants received military and financial assistance from Mujahideens from Pakistan and Afghanistan. Similarly the UK based IRA had operation units in the US as well. 16 The former British Prime Minister, Margaret Thatcher had authentic information that the IRA was receiving funds from Libyan mercenaries. This issue was one of the important factors that inspired Thatcher to approve the US attack on Libya in 1986. 17The case of multiple RDX explosions in Mumbai in 1993 also refers to international contact and collusion. Tiger Memon , the smuggler turned terrorist, has established political contacts across the border and is trying to convert his ill-gotten money into politico-religious outlets. Son of a police inspector, he began his criminal career in Mumbai. Thereafter he moved to Dubai from where he established links with the Pakistani intelligence and law enforcement agencies. The net result of this collaboration was the serial bombing in Mumbai. After this incident, India pursued the UAE government for an extradition treaty between the two countries. This compelled Tiger Memon, the main accused, to shift his base from Dubai to Karachi where he lives under protection and constant vigilance of the Pakistan government. Maintaining the same tradition, highjackers of the Indian Airlines IC 814 successfully utilised their political contacts in Afghanistan to get the hardcore Pakistani terrorists, Azhar Masood and two others released. The good offices of Taliban government was engaged to bargain with India at the Qandhar international airport in Afghanistan. Throughout the eight day drama beginning December 24-31, 1999, the highjackers bargained with India through the Taliban government of Afghanistan with whom India does not have diplomatic relations. It was a difficult situation for Delhi to get out of this crisis without involving the Taliban government. These incidents are enough indication that political collaboration in the international network of terrorist groups is vital to the success of terrorism. Without such contacts and cooperation terrorism would remain a bare philosophy and would have no impact on society or the government. Hence, the apolitical definition of terrorism has no relevance to the global problem of terrorism. Terrorism is the study of conflict in politics within and beyond the national frontiers and it needs to be defined politically. The second essential aspect in the definition of terrorism is to analyse it as a means to an end rather than an end by itself. History offers evidence that terrorists invariably aim to achieve certain socio-economic or political goals. Terror tactics have always been used as means to an end. 18 Means theory is so relevant in the politics of violence that even an individual perpetrator addresses his grievances through terror tactics. Martha Crenshaw substantiates this idea by defining terrorism as a means to a political end. 19 Furthermore, it is the type of means employed that defines a group as terrorist or otherwise. It is worth mentioning that political parties too resort to violence at times. A clear distinction between violence by a political party and a terrorist group is necessary while defining terrorism. Often students of terrorism confuse both as being one and the same. The differences between the two could be easily explored; for instance, violence by an established political party is normally haphazard and of low intensity. It happens only in the wake of protest rallies and demonstrations. These are more in the form of anomie than planned violence like that of terrorism. Violence by political parties does not create mass unrest for a long period of time. It can create chaos, confusion and halt the government machinery for a day or two but cannot pose a serious threat to society . Terrorism, on the other hand, adopts a well-planned tactic to indulge in violence, arson and subversion. Every phase of violence is chalked out by terrorists according to socio-economic and political conditions of the target area. An environment of unrest and fear is created through conspiracy and propaganda before terrorists resort to violence. Such issues are totally missing from violence by political parties. As a corollary to this and as explained in the model, it is also important to note that violence, being a precondition to terrorism, needs proper planning for execution of subversive plans, which largely depends on training imparted to the terrorists. Without training in the use of weapons, tactical application of violence is not possible. This aspect is also significant in defining terrorism. Terrorists are trained in weaponry, communication systems and post-violence follow up actions in training camps abroad. It is an important aspect of terrorism, because the era we live in is not that of daggers and knives, but of machine guns, bazookas, missiles, transister bombs, letter bombs, cyanide and RDX. These are highly sophisticated weapons and ammunition , which require proper training to operate. 20 Lack of skill might prove fatal and self destructive. These descriptions apparently lead to the conclusion that terrorism is not just a kind of violence expressed on the spur of the moment, but an organised instrument to achieve political objectives. It has its own identity, comprising various issues as mentioned above. Therefore, on the basis of all the definitions given by scholars all over the world and the real issues involved in terrorism , terrorism could be defined here as an act or threat of an act of tactical violence by a group of trained individuals, having international linkage, to achieve political objective. This group could be sponsored by non -state or state agencies. This definition precisely covers all the aspects of terrorism.